cartridge filters are becoming
increasingly popular in new vehicle
applications although they're relatively
easy to change and dispose of extra care
must be taken when installing a
replacement filter failure to follow
proper installation procedure may result
in oil leakage and engine damage
applications may differ slightly but the
following installation should be
representative of most for this video
we're changing the filter on a 2009
Chevrolet HHR with a 2.2 liter engine
this video will show the steps involved
in changing the filter and does not
include the engine oil drain or refill
sequence to begin the filter change
locate the filter housing and if
applicable remove the drain plug from
the housing cap allowing any residual
oil to drain from the housing in this
particular application there is no drain
plug on the cap or housing the oil in
the filter housing will drain to the oil
pan when the cap is loosened using an
appropriate tool remove the filter cap
from the housing note the location of
the oil ring seal on the housing cap and
remove the o-ring and set it aside some
caps have several grooves which may
appear to be the location for the o-ring
be sure to note the correct one remove
the filter cartridge from the cap and
set it aside with the previously removed
oring clean both the filter housing cap
and the filter housing examine them for
damage such as breakage cracks or
damaged threads make certain the groove
in which the o-ring seats is clean and
undamaged if necessary replace any
damaged components compare the new
filter cartridge and the included Oh
ring with the used filter and a rang
that were set aside previously to make
certain you have the correct filter for
your application do not reuse any of the
old oring as they're not designed for
multiple service intervals reuse of the
old o-ring may lead to oil leakage and
possible engine damage
install the new housing o-ring onto the
housing cap by rolling the
ringg evenly into place in its groove
make sure the o-ring is positioned in
its correct location when in place if
the o-ring appears to be twisted slide
the o-ring around in the groove and
allow it to straighten out this is an
important detail to prevent premature
failure of the o-ring apply clean engine
oil to the new o-ring place the new
filter cartridge in the housing cap
install the housing cap and filter into
the filter housing by hand until you
feel the o-ring begin to compress
using an appropriate tool tighten the
housing cap as indicated on the cap or
in the vehicle owners manual in this
installation we're using a torque wrench
and tightening the cap to 25 Newton
meters as indicated on the cap do not
over tighten the cap or damage to the
cap or the housing could occur this
concludes the filter installation
procedure be sure to check the housing
cap seal for leakage when you initially
start the engine after changing the
filter and don't forget to check the oil
level on the dipstick to confirm the oil
is in the recommended operating range